---
title: How to choose your first English book to read?
date: 2011-05-31
category: language
status: draft
---

*Some thoughts on studying English.*

<img src="{static}/images/english.jpg" class="thumbnail"/>

Last weekend, one of my friends told me she's reading A Global History.  "Oh, do you like the book?"
"Ah, the problem is, I can only finish one page per day.  There are too many words that I don't
know."

My friend is one of the most resolute people I had ever known.  If she decided to finish that book,
she will finish it even if it will take 100 years.  But as she doesn't have any interest in Fountain
of Youth, perhaps she won't have a century to spend on that book.  So it might be necessary to offer
her some suggestions on how to choose the first English book to read.

A funny and smart book is the key to success as reading English books is really hard for non-native
speakers. 8 years ago, the first English book I read, the 900-age Computer Networks, took me 2 hours
a day in 3 months to finish.  That was a laboured and monotonous experience. Sometimes I asked
myself, "How could you really have read it?" My ingrained elitism might explain why I begun to
torture myself with that book.  But after all, it's the brilliant sense of humour in the book that
sustained me during those 3 tedious months.  Every time when I finally realized the subtle humour
disguised by drab technical details, not only I was amused, but it also provides some sense of
accomplishment, as if I was talking with a friend of great wisdom and I could well understand him.
In a word, reading that books made me laugh and feel that I'm intelligent.  It more or less
counteracted the unpleasantness of consulting the dictionary crazily.

The first English book that you choose to challenge your patience and resolution, should also be a
simple one. I might have given you an impression that The Computer Networks is book that explains
theories as profound as Quantum Physics or Group Theory.  However, it's just a textbook written with
plain English and relatively limited vocabularies for undergraduate students who majored in Computer
Science.  And I had already studied most of the theories before.  Comparing to novels which are
usually intended to show the delicacy of language, textbooks are almost written for illiterates. The
plain style of this book could greatly alleviate the pain of reading your first English book.  Had I
started reading Shakespeare's, I would have been so frustrated that I would never try to read any
other English books.

In fact, it really doesn't matter which book you choose, as long as you can finish it. Keep one
thing in your, after the darkness, you will find a bright and amazing world of countless engrossing,
profound, and beautiful books waiting for you to enjoy.

(In 2010, Google estimated that there are 130 million books in the world.  I bet a large part of
them are written in English.)
