---
title: Oxford and its caricature
date: 2017-07-23
tags: Britain-2017
category: travel
status: draft
---

![Oxford]({static}/images/2017-07-23/06.jpg)

When my friend Henning heard that I was going to Oxford, he said "It's a
bit sad. The town has become its own caricature." I only understand what
he means when I saw Oxford today.

It's a magnificent town littered with game of thrones style towers. But
it's also the most commercialized tourism town I have ever seen. The
streets are packed with visitors, restaurants and shops. (I even met a
guy from Siberia!) Every college, library, castle, church, even just a
small mound, charges a fee for entry. If China builds a British themed
amusement park, it is going to be exactly like this.

I visited two colleges, Balliol and Merton. The first is one of the
oldest. The second had Andrew Wiles. Both has lawns as well-kept as
Wimbledon tennis courts. The impression that I go from movies is that
only a college fellow, e.g., people like G.H. Hardy, is allowed to walk
on these lawns. Although I didn't see any signs saying that, I stepped
on every one of them in case the stories are true.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Oxford is flooded by summer-school teenagers from around the world .
While waiting for his group to gather, a summer school instructor saw me
and asked "are you one of our group?" Oh, being mistaken as teenager
really made my day.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One the way to Oxford, I met an old, grumpy, Brexit lady who wants to
blew up North Korea. She doesn't like China, especially Hong Kong. The
reason is "Oh the last time I was in Hong Kong, a guy felling from the
sky almost killed me. If I were not pushed aside by someone, I'd have
dead!" No wonder she has never been to Hong Kong again.

![Oxford]({static}/images/2017-07-23/00.jpg)
![Oxford]({static}/images/2017-07-23/01.jpg)
![Oxford]({static}/images/2017-07-23/02.jpg)
![Oxford]({static}/images/2017-07-23/04.jpg)
![Oxford]({static}/images/2017-07-23/05.jpg)
