---
title: An example of proving summation identities with computer
date: 2018-12-21
layout: post
tags: summation, CAS
status: published
---

I am trying to learn how to use computers to prove identities like this one
<!-- END_SUMMARY -->
$$
\sum_{k=m}^n{k\choose k-m}{2n\choose 2k}=4^{n-m}\frac{n(2n-m-1)!}{(2n-2m)!m!},
$$
which I came across on [math.stackexchange.com](https://math.stackexchange.com/q/3047567/1618).  If
you put it Mathematica and simplify, you will simply get a True without any explanation. 
But how dose computer know it?  In
the following, I will explain one possible way that machines can prove this for us -- using creative
telescoping algorithms.

I am going to use the Mathematica package [Sigma][2] by [Carsten
Schneider](https://www3.risc.jku.at/people/cschneid/).

First the left-hand-side can be written as 
$$
S(n_0)=\underset{k=0}{\overset{n_0}{\sum }}
f(n_0,k)
$$
where $n_0=n-m$ and
$$
f(n_0,k)=
\left(
\begin{array}{c}
 k+m \\
 k \\
\end{array}
\right) \left(
\begin{array}{c}
 2 \left(m+n_0\right) \\
 2 (k+m) \\
\end{array}
\right)
.
$$
Next, let
$$
c_0(n)=2 (1 + m + n_0) (m + 2 n_0) (1 + m + 2 n_0),
$$
and
$$
c_1(n)=-(1 + n_0) (m + n_0) (1 + 2 n_0)
$$
and
$$
g(n_0,k)=-\frac{k (2 k+2 m-1) \left(m+n_0+1\right) \binom{k+m}{k} \left(2 k m+4 k n_0+2 k-4 m n_0-3 m-6 n_0^2-7 n_0-2\right) \binom{2 m+2 n_0}{2 k+2 m}}{\left(2 k-2 n_0-1\right) \left(k-n_0-1\right)}.
$$
Then you can verify in your favorite CAS system that
$$
g\left(n_0,k+1\right)-g\left(n_0,k\right)=c_0\left(n_0\right) f\left(n_0,k\right)+c_1\left(n_0\right) f\left(n_0+1,k\right)
.
$$
I did not magically find this recursion myself. This is done by [Sigma][2].

Summing over $k=1,..n_0-1$, the left-hand-side telescopes (perhaps this is where the name creative-telescoping comes from), and we get
$$
c_0(n_0) S\left(n_0\right)+c_1(n_0)  S\left(n_0+1\right)=0
$$
This is a simple recursion. Put in $S(0)=f(0,0)=1$, we get
$$
S(n_0)=
\frac{4^{n_0} \left(m+n_0\right) \left(m+2 n_0-1\right)!}{m! \left(2 n_0\right)!}
=
\frac{n 4^{n-m} (-m+2 n-1)!}{m! (2 n-2 m)!}
.
$$
where we substitute by $n_0=n-m$. This is exactly the right-hand-side.

All these have been completely automated. What you need to do is only to trust the computer when it says
something is true. See [Schneider's
paper](https://www3.risc.jku.at/research/combinat/software/Sigma/pub/SLC06.pdf) for many more
examples!

  [1]: https://math.stackexchange.com/users/543769/metamorphy
  [2]: https://www3.risc.jku.at/research/combinat/software/Sigma/index.php
